---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---

# Some Lessions from *The Cathedral and The Bazzar*

> When your language is nowhere near Turing-complete, syntactic sugar can be your friend.

This point that Raymond makes was interesting to me because to fully unpack it requires the context of the story
he tells with it. Ryamond is talking about a small "langauge" (which he hazards to call it) used for rc file syntax.
There exists an argument here about English-like vs machine-like syntax. That is, there is always a trade off -- Is
it more beneficial for the programmer to have an easier time understanding it, or for the parser to be simpler?

A modern example I can see could be seen in Regular Expressions, which in the Chomsky hierachy, are more restrictive
than everyday programming languages and therefore are *not* turing complete. However, they exist to make certain tasks
simpler. They are typically terse, but provide some syntatic sugar to make them easier to use, like `\w` or `\d` for
example. A more extreme example could be something like Lambda Calculus, which is (in my opinion) difficult to understand.

I believe the point here is that something being easier to understand allows more people to adopt it, and therefore allowing
for more complex ideas to be implemented.

> Often, the most striking and innovative solutions come from realizing that your concept of the problem was wrong.

I greatly enjoy this statement because it may apply to ideas outside of engineering. It makes me think of a lesson
taught by one of my professors -- The distiction between *evolutionary* and *revolutionary* inventions. Iterating
on current solutions can yield better-than-current results, but it is the *revolutionary* ideas that create the new
paradigm for the present.

Sometimes creating revolutionary ideas involves rethinking the currently-accepted solutions, not in proving their
correctness, but by asking a different question entirely. I believe this touches every school of thought or field
of study, from philosphy, to medicine or business, and back to computer science.


One lesson I found particularly profound is the following:

> To solve an interesting problem, start by finding a problem that is interesting to you.

It's a statement most everyone can agree with, yet is a situation that is all to hard to find for most everyone.
I read this in a simpler way: Do what you love. Which is again, advice we've all heard and strive to live by.
Raymond uses it to mean that the best solutions are from problems that you take an interest in, or are problems
of your own. However, at times it feels like those can be out of our reach, or have already been somehow "solved."

To find that intersting problem, I agree requires the passion of who is to solve it. Combined with some creativity,
that passion can lead to persistence, putting the interesting problems back in reach, and allowing novlety in unpacking
improvements to problems which, at their surface, appear already solved.

# Team project update: Scikit Learn

This week we wrote out our portions of the TODOs in the scikit learn glossary. My portion was to define how kernels work
within the API's ecosystem. I learned how to make more complex links within the docs, and how to reference other classes
and structures within the API.

Once all of our sections are complete, we will review them together on Monday, assess any issues that other team members
ran into, and (hopefully) issue our second pull-request to the project. Afterwords, we will find another issue to work on
from the Issues tracker. This time hopefully tackling a pre-existing issue, rather than creating our own.
