---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

# License Information for Scikit-Learn

### New BSD License

Key takeaways from this license are:

* You must retain the liberties and restrictions offered by this license when you make redistributions or adaptations of Scikit-Learn

* The above is also true for documentation or supporting assets provided with the binary

* You can't use the names of the contributors of scikit-learn to endorse your own products if you happen to use scikit-learn in your product

The capitalized portion of the license onwards looks like the MIT license. This means that:

* The software is provided "as is." Scikit-learn is not obligated to extend you warranty support of any kind.

* The software is not obligated to serve a particular purpose

* Scikit-learn is absolved of all liability from using this software. This includes even if they warn you of particular risks.


# Installing The Development Environment

Contributing to the scikit-learn project is delightfully straightforward. Since it is written in python, much of it need not be
compiled from source, as python is an interpreted language. This is quite nice compared to a C project for example, which might
have build-time dependencies which are not runtime dependencies, making the "automake" process not so "auto."

With that said, the [Contributing Code](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/developers/contributing.html#contributing-code) section
outlines how to set up a development environment:

1. Fork the project from [GitHub](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn)

2. Clone your fork

3. Install the library in **editable mode**: `pip install --editable .` This is also where the project can be
[built from source](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/developers/advanced_installation.html#install-bleeding-edge)

4. Make a **feature branch** on your fork as to avoid committing to master: `git checkout -b my-feature`

5. Develop your feature (Ideally one which does not already have a pull request for it)

6. Push your changes back: `git push -u origin my-feature`

Then it's as simple as using GitHub's interface for contributing a pull request, with the detailed specifics described right below
the Contributing Code section, as linked above.

## Contributing Documentation

Documentation can be built like any other piece of code. Scikit-learn is no different, and contributing documentation requires a
separate development environment as seen in the 
[Documentation](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/developers/contributing.html#documentation) section:

1. Install dependencies: `pip install sphinx sphinx-gallery numpydoc matplotlib Pillow pandas scikit-image joblib`

2. Change dir to the `doc` dir, and make the library editable under pip: `pip install --editable ..`

3. Making the entire webpage can be done with `make html`. There are more nuanced make directives which are described in the
linked section.

All of the above can be fit right at step 5 for the earlier section. Documentation bugs often exist alongside the code bugs in the
issue tracker.

## Summary

Overall, the setup was really straightforward, I'm glad that scikit-learn, for being such a big project, uses fairly common tools
for their development cycle like GitHub, pip, and python. Most people probably have these on their machines already, so there is
no need to install software you might not want.

In fact, since I wanted to keep my normal version of scikit-learn on my computer, I actually installed everything in a pip `virtualenv`.
This made my entire development environment contained to a **single directory**.
