---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

# Reading Reflections

## The *Cathedral* vs The *Bazaar*

The practical difference between developing software under the Cathedral model vs
under the Bazaar model is the scope of who is allowed to contribute. From my understanding,
“Cathedral” software is careful, deliberate, and managed by a (mostly) closed group of individuals.
This has the advantage of greater control over the technical and abstract decisions about a project.
In the bazaar however, the process feels more organic. There are multiple smaller groups each discussing
and creating their own piece of the puzzle, at the same time, those smaller groups can also be a part of
larger groups, and everyone is working towards the common idea of a project. The hallmark example of this
is the Linux kernel.

I enjoy how the author chose not to give too much bias to one mode or the other — Both a Cathedral and a
bazaar can be beautiful in different ways. While the essay focuses on the success of the Bazaar model,
the author does so because the idea is new to him.

Personally, I find the Bazaar model exciting and dynamic. I think it allows contributors to gain
exposure in multiple areas, which promotes an overall more capable group of contributors.


## Selected Lessons from *The Cathedral and the Bazaar*

> 6: Treating your users as co-developers is your least-hassle route to rapid code improvement and effective debugging.

The lesson here is that the users themselves often have great feature ideas
since they are the ones that frequently use the product. A third-party
perspective is often welcomed, and allows for discussions which would likely
never happen otherwise.

I think this lesson is good also for developers in closed-source scenarios, as
well as open-source developers. All too often users are thought to be a
hindrance to the program's interface -- something to hedge against, or build
walls around to prevent breakage. What ends up happening of course is that
frequent users become very familiar with a program, and those safeguards
begin to feel like limitations. I believe treating users like adults leads to
more powerful tools, and allowing competent developers under-the-hood leads
those individuals to extend your software, and create a community around it.
While this example might appear juvenile, Minecraft became a gigantic
commercial success for this reason, selling for $2.5B in 2015.

> 14: Any tool should be useful in the expected way, but a truly great tool lends itself to uses you never expected.

I liked this idea because I had never thought about software that way before.
Of course, we likely all do it on a day-to-day basis without giving it much
thought. Sometimes I use my email to send myself todos, can keep a running
list where I reply only to myself.

The authors example is of course about Fetchmail, but I can see this topic
again applying to all closed/open source projects as well. In a way, it
resonates with the sentiment from (6) -- Treat your users as educated adults,
and listen to their needs as such. Sometimes the real-word use-case will *not*
be the one you set out to make, but being a flexible developer, and writing
flexible software will allow other perspectives you might have never considered
to shine through.


## *Free* vs. *Open*

From my understanding, the two ideas are often present in the same piece of software,
yet what the two words represent are radically different. As Stallman puts it,
“Open” often has more practical connotations while “Free” has social connotations.

“Free” is about respecting the user’s freedoms — the freedom to see, modify, and
redistribute the source code. I also enjoy how Stallman comments that this extends
to not spying or otherwise surveilling the user’s interactions while using the software.

“Open” on the other hand, Stallman sees as a more “practical” label. That is, projects that
label themselves “open source” are typically more concerned with the implementation and
delivery aspect of their project. However, being open does not always mean respecting user
freedoms.

Ultimately, I agree with Stallman’s point that more open source projects should focus on
the “freedom” aspect of the software. It’s often overlooked, and important to the end user.


# Project Update

We have found a series of "TODO"s in Sci-kit learn's documentation that we wish
to fill in. We also checked out and familiarized ourself with IRC in case we
need to make use of that tool in the future. Currently, we are looking into
what needs to be researched to fill in the TODOs. There are about 5, but some
of these require knowledge of Python's backend, or how numpy/scipy are
implemented. This is no problem of course, it will just require more research
than those only about sci-kit learn.

Additionally, we have been investigating exactly why the development (mainly
the documentation development) environment is so difficult to install under
Windows. While only one of us uses Windows, many other people do and next
week we will meet on whether or not to create an Issue in the project on the
installation procedure. I think it could be a unique route to explore, since
the install procedure for Windows is definitely less straightforward than
Linux (I only needed to execute two commands), and our experience could likely
help in making it better.

