---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

# Humanitarian Open Source Development

I believe that Open Source finds a natural home in humanitarian pursuits. This is likely because they are both endeavors
of Public work.

Conversely, I also think humanitarian efforts *ended up* with Open Source primarily because there is little economic incentive
for businesses in charitable or humanitarian projects. This is a shame, but it's nonetheless expected. Humanitarian projects have, however, shown
through great success that you do not need commercial backing to make a difference in the lives of people affected by disaster, and the
introduction of Open Source technology in humanitarian projects has opened up another possibility for contribution that enables even those who
cannot be physically present to offer aid.

In a way, their relationship is symbiotic. Humanitarian projects often deal with hardship and disaster relief. When people's lives are on
the line, you cannot afford to have software break, and the software itself must be usable by those with little technical background. I find
these virtues are often lost in commercial software, because they often do not serve a real-world purpose -- It's no issue to close and re-open 
Snapchat when it doesn't work, because its purpose is purely synthetic (humanity can exist just fine without it) and entertainment driven. This
sentiment may seem overly general, but for software as entertainment (Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat et. al), I would imagine most users would agree
that we've seen a decline in usability in favor of shareholder decisions, and growth outlooks.

While commercial software *can* be incredibly robust (I'm sure the code at Boeing doesn't break often!)(EDIT: Mar 27th, I spoke too soon....), 
it does not always see the same pressure as some of these projects do. Moreover, Open Source software
sees the advantage of a wider-cast net for auditing, since the software itself can be more easily accessed by anyone. 

Humanitarian projects are incredibly worthwhile, and I'm excited to see the Open Source community making contributions to them. It can sometimes be
thankless, and a work of pure charity, which I find quite admirable. The "prestige" might appear less than contributing to some rock-star project, but
the real-world impact is much greater in my opinion.

# Case Study: Ushahidi

Contributing to Ushahidi does not have to be purely software based. Users can upload different real-world events for crisis response, or alternatively
take action on events which are already reported, but discovered on Ushahidi.

In terms of code contributions, Ushahidi facilitates that effort with a [get-involved](https://www.ushahidi.com/support/get-involved) page.

Developer communication is done via a [mailing list](http://list.ushahidi.com/) or through IRC on FreeNode. 

Their code (and issue tracker) is hosted on GitHub and developers can go [here](https://github.com/ushahidi/platform/issues) to see the currently
open issues. 

As of March 8th:

**Open issues**: 664

**Bug tags**: 115

**Average comments per issue**: 1-6

**Newest issue**: 8 days ago

**Newest closed issue**: Jan 31st

**Pull Requests open**: 13

**Newest Pull Request**: 12 days ago

**Newest closed Pull Request**: 29 days ago

