---
layout: post
title: Week 11
---

# Kevin Fleming Talk Reflections

I really enjoyed having Kevin come to talk to us about open source at Bloomberg. I was surprised to learn how much
they contribute back to the community for a company involved in the financial industry. In finance, it's commonplace
to keep much of the technology behind closed doors -- Many of the wirehouses even maintain their own versions of compilers.

While Bloomberg does not manage any assets, their openness in their development process is great for the community as a whole.
I was unaware of how much alternative data (Twitter, News, etc.) they actually process into their system, and how robustly it
operates. Successfully processing over 100 billion messages in less than a minute I thought was quite incredible.

# Team project update: Scikit Learn

We are in the process of creating a PR for our glossary fixes. Our goal is to have each member issue a PR under their
name, so we can all say we provided fixes to SKLearn. That is currently in the hands of another team member.

I have been working on making sure the compiled Glossary section looks good, and fixing any formatting, spelling, or other
errors I come across in all of our additions. I've issued fixes to our fork's branch for these fixes.

We will have to assess where people are this Monday when we meet. Communication has been somewhat fragmented due to the
Easter holiday weekend with travels. We have a backlog of Issues we can tackle on our logistics page.
