---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---
# SKLearn Progress

This past week we worked on collaborating on a meeting time, which we decided to be
after class on Mondays. Additionally, we went through the Issues page again for Scikit-Learn to
find a group of easy issues to work on. We began to notice a problem we figured we would run into:
many of the issues get snatched up quickly, especially those tagged as "Good First Issue" or help wanted.

We made the decision to identify and fix our own issues for Scikit-Learn. We found a couple doc pages that
contained spelling or formatting issues, submitted an Issue, and claimed the issue for our own.

I learned how to traverse their API documentation at the source-level, and identify what needed to be fixed.
Since the issue was quite minor, I later submitted a pull request for the Issue (using their recommendations
for PR formatting), and the PR was merged into master incredibily quickly.

I was impressed at the speed, friendliness, and responsiveness of the SKLearn developers, and it certainly made
my first contribution a breeze.

We have added a list of issues we are working to our [sklearn-logistics](https://github.com/nyu-ossd-s19/sklearn-logistics)
page. Right now, we are working on independent issues, but will likely start collaborating more as we take on more
complicated issues.

# Reflections on Wikipedia

From my point of view, the contributors to Wikipedia are knowledgable people who are willing to share their insights.
In a way these are ordinary people from around the world, but you can tell in the page disscussions that the contributors
know their topic very well.

I also think knowing how to contribute to Wikipedia determines whether or not someone will make changes. After learning the
contribution process, I would like to think I would reguarly make small fixes to pages I find. I don't know if I'm knowledgable
enough in any given subject to write an entire page about it, but there's a market for people who keep the pages clean, and error-free.

When contributing for this class, I would likely start at the subjects I know a fair-bit about. I think I can offer qualitative
use-cases for some of the topics in ML/AI or statistics. I would also like to choose smaller pages, or those that contain a "this
page has issues with...." banner at the top to start with.

I thought that the talk by Jimmy Wales was interesting in the about of contributors he mentioned. It was on the order of 1000 to a
few thousand people. These days, I think that number is miniscule. Additionally, he meantions that Wikipedia is a "top 50" page
on the internet -- I wonder if he ever imagined Wikipedia becoming the **number 5** page on the internet.
